# JakartaEE-book-code
This project contains the Source Code for the book Jakarta EE in Practice.

Java is currently one of the most important programming languages in use. According to the TIOBE index, Java has occupied the top spots for popularity for the last two decades. Java knew considerable evolution since its early days and remains one of the most relevant languages, especially for web and enterprise development.

For more than a decade we have been teaching students Java EE (now renamed to "Jakarta EE"). One of the most important problems we had to solve in our classes was the lack of good documentation. While having a vibrant community of Java developers, frameworks, and platforms is seemingly good, this fragmentation is also a shortcoming, because one never knows exactly to which version of the language/framework/platform a web post refers. One of the problems for the non-initiated is running a hello world example. Doing a simple configuration is often far from being simple. This sort of problem prompted the creation of the blog "Enterprise Application Integration", to make up for the lack of a practical approach that could guide the developer. The blog targets WildFly, a very popular Application Server. The blog, however, grows organically and, like other documentation that we have prepared for students, didn't have a systematic, thorough approach to Java EE WildFly configurations.

In this book, we try to cover the limitations of the blog and other available documentation. We go through the most important topics of Jakarta EE (plus Kafka) and present configurations and "Hello World"-kind examples. This book specifically targets students, but also developers having the first contact with the technology.

The book covers the pivotal topics in Jakarta EE: Java Persistence API (JPA), Enterprise JavaBeans (EJBs), SOAP and Representational State Transfer (REST) web services, as well as web applications created with Java Server Pages (JSPs). We also cover messaging with Java Message Service (JMS) and Apache Kafka. The latter is not part of Jakarta EE, but seems to be very important these days, as it also includes powerful features related to streaming. For this reason, we found it worth including in this book. We use these technologies to create a complete demo application by the end of the book.